---
title: GL.inet VS. Unifi Travel Router
description: A quick review on which router my be best for you. 
date: 2026-04-18 00:00:00 +/-0000
categories: [gadget, security]
tags: [travelrouter, vpn, wireguard, unifi, travel, hotel]
toc: true
comments: true
pin: false
published: true
# permalink: /homelab/meshcore-repeater-rak-wisblock-settings
image:
  path: '/assets/img/headers/glinetvsutr.webp'
seo:
  title: "GL.inet VS. Unifi Travel Router"
  description: "A quick review on which router my be best for you."
  # canonical: "https://wangineer.com/homelab/meshcore-repeater-rak-wisblock-settings/"
  keywords: "travelrouter, vpn, wireguard, unifi, travel, hotel"
---

## Objective
Over the years, I have been increasingly wanting to find a better secure solutio when connectig to public wifi networks (i.e. hotels, planes, conferences, etc). I'm pretty good at making sure that I connect via VPN when I am in these places, but it becomes increasingly harder to manage this with my families devices. 

Normally when we stay at a hotel, every device needs to go through the guest portal to gain access to internet.  That in and of itself is a pain, not to mention the potential security vulnerability of connecting to a guest network.  

Around the time I was looking at purchasing a solution Unifi had launched there version of a Travel Router.  As always Months pass by, and every once and a while someone would mention on Reddit that the UTR (Unifi Travel Router) was available, but would only last a few hours.  

Well my family had planned a trip and i was in need of a solution.  I found a really good discounted price for the Gl.inet Slate7 router, so I went ahead and bit the bullet and ordered it.  Oddly enough a few weeks later, the UTR came available.  When I checked out, I was informed that the UTR wouldn't arrive until after we had left for the trip.  At this point, I was a little bummed to have for the trip, but shipping actually had it arrive two days before we left.  So below are my findings of the two. 

## The Routers
- ***Slate7***([Amazon](https://amzn.to/4cC2pvc))
- ***Unifi Travel Router*** ([Amazon](https://amzn.to/41Fp6JZ))([UI Store](https://store.ui.com/us/en/category/wifi-special-devices/products/utr))
## Slate7 (Gl.inet)

### Setup
Prior to leaving for the trip, I had opened the box, but never powered it on, or even tried looking into the GUI.  Setup seemed to be mostly easy from the first standpoint.  

### Initial Setup
While my wife was driving, I was able to connect the Slate7 to my phones hotspot and get internet pretty easily.  everything seemed pretty straight forward.  Your able to see who all is connected to your device.  

#### VPN Setup
I was able to setup Wireguard on the device.  There is a plugin for wireguard, but I didn't install it. All I needed to do was create the file in Unifi and donload it to my pc, and log into the router and upload it.  

> One thing I have noticed that when connecting to new Wireless, there seems to be an error message first, and then the router is able to connect, so just give it some time.
{: .prompt-tip }

### Hotel Setup
While in the Hotel, I had to quickly setup and connect to the hotel wifi.  I didn't read any of the instructions, but setup the "Repeater" option by doing the following. 

1. Connected my phone to the Hotel wifi and when through the signin process
2. Went to my WiFi settings and copied my mac address
3. Logged into the Slate7 Router main page and clicked on "Repeater"
4. There is a dropdown option where you can select Randomized, Cone, and somethig else.  I selected "Clone" and pasted my phones mac address in the text field and clicked save.  
5. Initial connection seemed to fail, but waiting a few seconds it showed connected. 
6. Ensure your vpn is connected.
7. Once everything is setup, the Slate7 has a cool QR code you can scan to connect. This can also be a security issue in the event someone gets into your room and connects to your wifi.  They will have access to what you are VPN'd into.  I think there is a way to setup a pin, I haven't looked into how to do that yet. 

> Make sure you "forget" the hotel wifi form your phone.  If your device connects to the wifi when you have a "cloned" mac address, it causes a duplicate IP/Mac Address on the wifi and causes connectivity issues.
{: .prompt-warning }

There also seem to be a lot of plugins you can add to the router, so I will definitely need to research recommended plugins to use with this device. 

## Unifi Travel Router (Ubiquiti)
### The Setup
Setup was suprisingly more difficult for me with this device. Take this with a grain of salt as I think the Travel Router is mainly used with individuals that have a Unifi Cloud Gateway and the use of "Teleport" and not a UXG. I'm told this is pretty easy.  In order to allow access to my home network and create a VPN tunnel, I had some additional Wireguard VPN setup steps.

Setting up wifi was pretty easy, but I find that you can't change the Channel width being broadcasted from the router. I'm hoping they fix this with updates.  Having a Wifi broadcast with channel bonding six 20mhz channels is pretty excessive in a hotel environment or high density wireless deployment.  You could actually being causing more harm than good to your fellow neighbors. 

Additionally I found the below bug to be quite alarming.  Needless to say I did not leave my UTR on for very long.  As it will broadcast your Wireless without any sort of requirement for a password.  If you have setup your UTR to connect back to your home network, this gives people free access to your home network.  

Vulnerability
https://community.ui.com/questions/UniFi-Travel-Router-Unsecure-WiFi/83fa9d26-d929-4623-aba8-90048eb813fe

Other than that I found setting up the Wireguard pretty easy, other than the DDNS behavior and oddity that you have to deal with the Unifi UXG.  For some reason they still don't support DDNS for the wireguard and you have to put in a physical IP address for the config file to be generated correctly.

## Conslusion 
The Slate 7 Router is larger than the UTR, but not obscenely huge. Since I have both in my possession, I have a unique option to use both for different situations.  I found the Slate 7 easy for use to stay in our hotel room for when the family needs to get connected with all of there devices. I found the UTR beneficial for when we went to the pool or breakfast.  Part of me wishes the UTR had some battery life to it, but understand for the price point and size its not really feasable. Carrying around a USB power bank can require more to carry.  There is also the other option of connecting all my devices individually via VPN with the use of Wireguard back home to secure my traffic from the pesky wireless sniffer/hackers.

### Slate 7
Good
- Secure, mainly use for in hotel room
- Scan QR code and connect quick and easy
Bad
- Offers many plugins
- Offers connectivity to the Tor network if thats something you need

Bad
- The fact that there is a QR scan code to easily connect to the network could pose a threat to someone scanning there device and connecting to your network and gain access to your home network
  - I believe there is an option to create a security lock, but I need to look further into that feature. 
- A bit bigger to travel with and bring to a coffee shop for single user.

### Unifi Travel Router
Good
- Easy Small Size
- Allows for connectivity with use of Teleport technology and Wireguard

Bad
- It still needs a power device and requires a cable to be powered either by possible laptop, or externaly USB power bank or wall outlet. 
- Huge vulnerability where it broadcasts your wifi without a password to connect

For those of you using the GL.inet travel routers, what plugins are you using and like?  Leave a comment below and let me know how your using either travel router. 

While also 
* This blog post uses Affiliate links to Amazon. 